---
layout: post
title: "My Journey to Unemployed"
date: 2018-10-17 10:15:00 +0200
summary: Unemployed and embracing this break from the full time American lifestyle.  It took a long time to come to the conclusion that I needed a change, but I'm glad I did.  I think everyone could benefit from a break and I wish more people had the opportunity to take one to discover themselves and what makes themselves happy.
published: true
---

I am currently unemployed and embracing it.  It took a long time for me to come to the realization that full time (40+ hour week) work didn't fit me.  I constantly tried my best to make it work with the thoughts in the back of my head saying things like "everyone else does it and is fine", "this is what people do" and "this is what you have to do to make money and be successful."  I want to explain some about my mental journey, possibly to convince others to do the same, or to just take a different perspective.  If more of us put pressure on society to find alternatives, more alternatives will arise. 

First I will say that I am very privledged in my industry.  I am a software developer and it is a career notorious for having a lot of flexibility and different ways in which people work.  That being said I have met a lot of people working in industry that would benefit from a different way of working and have wanted to leave the 40+ hour work week but don't know how.  Many people have left for freelancing or more flexibility, but there seems to be a gap in that those still working full time don't know how to make that change.  I think many surrender to the hope of working hard and retiring early.

I started working at Amazon 4 years ago.  I had done an internship there the year before and got a job offer from that.  In general I had enjoyed the internship; I was a little sad about being stuck inside for long days during the beautiful Seattle summer, but other than that I liked who I worked with and what I was working on, everyone was really smart.  I figured if I was going to be happy working full time anywhere it would be at Amazon.  I hadn't considered that there was any other option but to take a full time position.  They had a structure of working on projects that gave me a lot of autonomy, my team had a lot of input into what we should do with the product for our customers, and that felt good.

As I would put it later, it made it easy for me to "drink the koolaid".  I worked with the customers of my tool, I liked them and I wanted to make their lives easier through improving my tool.  I wanted to develop their features to help them work better.  Help Amazon work better.

Fast forward 3 years, much of the original team I had joined at Amazon had moved on, and I was a senior member on my team.  Turnover was high and I couldn't seem to get technical debt prioritized.  I wasn't learning anything new.  I got an email offering to move to an Amazon team in the Netherlands, so I took it.  Moving to Europe has been a great experience that has taught me many things about how people can live differently.  It has also been great to watch US politics unfold from afar.

One thing has been true about the time I have spent at Amazon - all of the people have been great.  I've met some of the smartest people there that I have learned a lot from.  Everyone I met genuinely wanted to help me when I needed help and that made me feel more at home.  I made some really good relationships.

Unfortunately (or forunately, TBD), over the last 6 months my brain has gone through a paradigm shift.  It was a function of many things including having more time to myself after moving (and not having friends here), keeping up with American politics from afar.  Also meeting various people here that prioritize life, family and friends over work.  Seeing people that don't find excuses to stay at the office until late.  In hindsight it almost seemed like an excuse to avoid building a real social life and lasting connections with people.

Slowly I started getting weird thoughts pop into my head like "why am I doing this?", "why am I even here right now?".  I tried to tell myself many of the justifications that people do, that I liked the product that I was working on and I felt like it would make a difference in the world.  This became harder and harder in the context of starting to believe that technology is not having the best impact on society and our planet right now.  Don't get me wrong, in the past it has brought us many conveniences in making life better, but the current narratives being pushed by our technology leaders are not great.

In general I could convince myself that the product I was working on was, at best, a neutral contribution to the tech world.  But regardless, I was benefiting a large corporation that doesn't have a reputation for doing the best for society.  Sure, I'm getting paid to be there, but they definitely make more money off my work than they pay, as any company does.  I'm not targetting Amazon though, I feel similarly for the other tech giants and large American corporations.  Most are just out to make more money, at any cost.  Anyway, 'neutral' wasn't motivating.  'Neutral' didn't make it easy for me to clock 8 hours a day.  'Neutral' made me stare out the window wondering what I could be doing to help other people instead.

Around the same time I had a life coach that was helping me through since I was having problems coping.  Honestly, I thought she might be able to tell me what was wrong with me so I could fix it and keep on keeping on.  She was great, but she didn't do that.  Instead she gave me tools for how to frame my problems and think about them a different way and alternatives for how I was reacting to situations.  I was getting upset at work and I couldn't figure out why.  (She was great by the way, I recommend a life coach for everyone).

A few themes kept repeating in our meetings.  One of which was "life is too short" do deal with these things for 35% of my waking hours.  Life is too short to keep trying to convince myself that I care enough about this company to clock as many hours as I do.  Money just doesn't make up for sitting at a desk not caring about what I am doing.

She told me to set a date to re evaluate how I was feeling.  On that date, if I still didn't want to be there, quit.  She told me that I can work on things that I care about and for less hours, that anything was possible if I was intentional about it.  We also had many discussions about how my low self worth was causing me problems, but that's another post.

So I did.  I set a date a month in the future.  If, on that day, I still did not want to get out of bed to go to work, I would put in my notice.  I thought that maybe the feeling would pass and I would bounce back to being fine.  That was not true.  One month later I was still asking myself why I should go to work.  I didn't think too much about what I would do instead, I just knew I was done being there.  I would figure it out, I usually did, but I was convinced that Amazon was not going to work anymore.

This was a huge relief.  I was done trying to convince myself that I fit and that I could make this work.  I finally accepted that it wouldn't work and that I didn't want to make it work anymore.  It is okay that It didn't fit for me.  I would do some soul searching and figure something else out, there had to be something out there that I enjoyed, that didn't benefit the corporate greed that is the current trend.

So here I am, I have now spent a few weeks off work figuring out what life looks like without this giant feeling burden.  I'll be honest, so far it has been rocky but, I won't deceive myself, it has been much less rocky than my last 3 months at my job.  It still feels surreal to not be going to work after 4 years, similar to the feeling you get after finishing your last final in college.  It takes awhile to convince yourself that it's not all a dream.  It feels much better to have space and time to think, breathe and just go outside.  
